My New Chapter: 6 Full Months in Chicago
family in an apartment with the Chicago skyline in the background
Life Update after Six Months in a New City
Life update: for those who missed it – I moved to Chicago! And, though my lease officially started at the end of November, I was in Texas most of the holiday season. All that to say – today is what I am considering the official 6 month mark of me living in my new home and starting my new chapter! 6 months feels like too short of a duration and like it flew by all at the same time. When I look around at the community I’ve already built, the friendships I have made, and the life I am living, I am honestly kind of blown away by the fact this is indeed my reality built from scratch. 

Today’s post is going to reflect on how I got here, how I’m doing now, and share what I would say to anyone who is considering making a big move themselves.

woman in jeans and white band tee in front of Chicago skyline
woman in jeans and white band tee in front of Chicago skyline
Shop my Look

My Outfit Details: 

How I Got Here: How Chicago Became Home
Throughout this past year (2024), I spent a lot of my time in the DFW and O’hare airports. I was traveling back and forth to my office in the Chicago burbs while working on a project for my full time job. At first it was fun … and then … 

Eventually, when I decided I could not eat one more meal alone at the restaurant attached to my hotel, I started to wonder: why don’t I venture down to the city and explore? At this point, I had only done the journey to the big city once. This was to visit my aunt and her family, and, honestly, there were a number of reasons I had kept to myself and my little 3- mile-radius-around-the-office bubble.

For one, I was working long hours, so nothing sounded worse than going from a long day to an eventful night. I also would not call myself a particularly good driver. The idea of driving to the city sounded outright terrifying. Most significantly, though, I really didn’t have any friends in the city. My work friend (singular) also lived in the burbs, which meant that I would be going to the city to explore alone, and I really didn’t know how I felt about that.

But then …

New Changes Brought New Expectations
My brother decided Chicago was where he wanted to land after school. Just a few weeks later my friend Katie (who at the time I knew as my friend from college’s roommate from Austin, TX) moved there and I started going out with her. That started the cycle. I would fly in early for work trips so I could go out with Katie on weekends downtown. Suddenly, the city had a whole new light to it. 

She and I would try new restaurants, meet new people, and even find ourselves on a boat in the Playpen. Katie looked beautiful and bronzed sitting atop the bow. I looked utterly pathetic puking over the edge and counting down from 50 repeatedly to keep myself from doing it again.

siblings posing in front of a downtown Chicago skyline

After my first long weekend staying at Katie’s while her roommate was out of town I started having the thought “what if I moved here myself?”, and after meeting one of her friends and going out with a crew on Halloween, my fate was sealed. After months of contemplation, I decided to trust my gut and make the jump … to move myself across the country and start a new life.



My New Chapter in Chicago
My lease started something like 12 days after I signed the contract. Everything during that time was a scramble and a blur. I had to fly into O’hare two additional times between signing and my final moving flight for work purposes. My move was less than graceful and resulted in me moving twice in a 72 hour period. Two sets of movers and one breakdown (in an apartment lobby that was not my own) later, I was settled in my new apartment, paying more in rent than I can even believe today, and happy as a freaking clam.

a quote about trusting the universe
A quote about feeling pulled to a place
How It's Going: Life in the City
Life in Chicago has been bliss. My new chapter is better than I imagined possible. I would say I can’t believe I didn’t make the jump sooner, but I believe I made it at the absolute perfect time. Chicago has been the ultimate butterfly moment for me … I finally decided to spread my wings and fly. 

While I do miss my family down in Texas, it brings me comfort to know they are just a quick plane ride away. I’m also excited to spend some time with them when I am down there for a while for a wedding this November.

A Love Note to Those Thinking About Making a Big Move Themselves
One final story before I sign off today: my family moved around a little bit when I was young before finally landing in Texas when I was in middle school. After the Texas move, I remember telling myself that was it – wherever we landed was going to be where I would end up for the rest of my life. So, with the exception of college, this has held true. About 15 years of my life have been spent in the DFW metroplex. 

It took leaving (and therapy ) for me to realize that, at the point in my life that I had made that promise to myself, I saw moving as a loss and something painful. To be fair to “little” me, I wasn’t wrong! At the time, it was both of those things … but it also wasn’t my choice. Moving was something I was told to do, not something I did on my own to improve my life. Now, I see that moving can open doors of opportunity, and while I don’t see myself returning to Texas any time soon, I know that if the going gets tough, I can always find my way back home.

How It's Going: Life in the City
SO – if you are considering making a move yourself … … trust your gut and what the universe is telling you to do. If you feel a pull towards somewhere, lean into it. You may be making the best decision of your life.

My New Chapter: 6 Full Months in Chicago