September Reads, Ratings, and Book Reviews
Books read by author in September 2024: House of Glass, God of the Woods, and Nothing More to Tell
September Reads, Ratings, and Book Reviews
I took a few months off of blogging to focus on my mental health and my career, so today, I am just now getting to posting my September reads, ratings, and book reviews along with ones from the past couple of months.

In case you missed it (since I literally just published the article the same night as the one you’re reading now), check out my reads from July and August. 

This Month Summarized...
Something kind of fun about my September reads were all of them were thriller / mystery of varying natures. One was a historical fiction mystery about missing children, another was a murder mystery surrounding a young girl and her guardians. Finally, I was back with my fav young adult author reading about a dead teacher and what actually happened in his final moments of life.

This past month, I read a total of 3 books (bringing me to 28 for the year):

Paperback: 1
Hardback: 2
Kindle: 0
My September Reads and Ratings
House of Glass by Sarah Pekkanen

Enjoyed on a long weekend at my parent’s lake home

House of Glass open book being read in front of a window overlooking a lake with a dock hanzastephens
“Often, what we see in art is a reflection of us. Of our optics. Our mindset. Have you ever tried to read a novel and not enjoyed it, the gone back at another point in time and loved it? The story didnt change. But you did. This is an insight into who we are at any give moment and what we bring to our unique intersection with art.” – (page 59) 

The Review
 

Stella Hudson is a well-respected best interest attorney for children in custody cases. Her newest client? The nine-year-old daughter of the Barclay family who has been mute ever since her nanny fell out of the window of her family’s home. It’s up to Stella to figure out what happened to place the child with the right family member post-divorce. Make the wrong decision and the child could end up living with a murderer. 

This book had a great start, a long middle, and a decent ending. It put me in a little bit of a reading slump by drowning on about 50 pages longer than necessary in the middle of the storyline. The pace aside, it is a great story.

Order it on Amazon
spacer line
The God of the Woods by Liz Moore
 

Enjoyed in my parents backyard with my puppy and on another work trip to Chicago

God of the Woods by Liz Moore 
next to a corgi hanzastephens
This book contains themes of kidnapping, infidelity, grief, domestic violence, and alcoholism.

The Review
 Click for more info about The God of the Woods: A Novel     Kindle Edition
When Barbara goes missing from summer camp in the same small town her brother disappeared from years ago, chaos ensues, suspicions arise, and decades old secrets come back into the open. 

This book was both fascinating and magical. I loved how everything was connected in an unobvious way. It is told from multiple perspectives and across many different timelines. While I thought this would be overwhelming, Liz Moore did it flawlessly! I highly, highly recommend!

Order it on Amazon
spacer line
Nothing More to Tell by Karen M. McManus


Enjoyed while hanging with my “Little Brudder” (mini weenie pictured) and while recovering from strep throat


Three friends were found

the book Nothing more to tell being read next to a sleeping puppy hanzastephens
The Review
 Click for more info about Nothing More to Tell     Kindle Edition
Three friends found their young teacher dead in the woods next to their school, and still nobody has been arrested for the crime. A fourth friend, who was supposed to be with the others that notorious day, suddenly has the opportunity to share this unresolved mystery with a new television show. But will this development cause her to come back face-to-face with the secrets and timeline of the past?

As yall know, I typically am not a young adult reading fan. Karen McManus is 100% my exception to that! After finding one of her books in a Little Free Library a year ago(!!!) I have been hooked! They are light and fun and completely addicting.