My July and August Reads, Ratings, and Book Reviews
items to annotate books
July and August Reads, Ratings, and Book Reviews
The heat of summer rushed by in an ironically slow hurry, and I got left in the mix. I took a few months off of blogging to focus on my mental health and my career, so today, on October 1, I am just now getting to posting my July and August reads, ratings, and book reviews.

Reading Totals ...
In July and August, I read a total of 6 books (bringing me to 25 for the year):

Paperback: 3
Hardback: 1
Kindle: 2
Types of books: 

Romcom: 1
Unclassified Fiction: 2
Thriller/mystery: 2
Nonfiction: 1
My July and August Books and Ratings
The Lost Bookshop by Evie Gaughan
  Historical Fiction  Paperback

Enjoyed on a life-restoring trip to Denver, CO

the lost bookshop being read next to popcorn and a cat
Free on Kindle Unlimited!

The Review
 Click for more info about The Lost Bookshop: The most charming and uplifting novel for 2024 and the perfect gift for book l...
What a beautiful, unique book! I truly didn’t want it to end. It was full of hope, new beginnings, and promise of magic in the future. This is the perfect read for anyone who is feeling lost or stuck in life (as I was when I was reading it). 

Fun story about this particular book – on one of my work trips to Chicago, I was boarding a plane and met a woman who was reading the same book as me. We bonded all the way to the plane. When I got seated, I ended up being placed next to her wife, and guess what she was reading! I went on and on about how much she’ll love it, and when we departed the plane she said she couldn’t wait to get home to keep going. It’s such a treasure of a read!

 

Order it on Amazon
spacer line
Darling Girls by Sally Hepworth
  Mystery  Kindle

Enjoyed on a plane ride back to DFW

Darling Girls being read on a Kindle
The Review
 Click for more info about Darling Girls: A Novel
I want to start out by saying I have always loved Sally Hepworth’s books. Shes afabulous author and does an amazing job at developing her characters so that you really feel them. I had been hearing such great things about this book, so I was excited to get to read it! All of that said … this book was meh to me. It started out great but the end fell flat. I’ll give a bit about the premise below in case you are still interested. It was a quick read, and, again, so many people have loved it, so you may, too! It just wasn’t my cup of tea. 

Jessica, Norah, and Alicia are foster sisters who grew up on thebeautiful property of Miss Fairchild. With a pool in the yard and horses nearby, how could their childhoods there have been anything but perfect? 

This book takes place 20 years later, when the sisters are grown and a body is discovered under Miss Fairchild’s home. Who does the body belong to? And are the sisters somehow involved?

Order it on Amazon
spacer line
The Art Thief by Michael Finkel
  nonfiction  paperback 

Enjoyed on a plane ride back to the Texas heat

The Art Thief book being read in an airport
The Review
 Click for more info about The Art Thief: A True Story of Love, Crime, and a Dangerous Obsession     Paperback – June 25, ...
This book was a page turner! It’s rare that I find a nonfiction book this enthralling. To anyone who loves the Daisy Haites books in the Magnolia Parks series, this is a fascinating realistic side of the art left world a la Julian Haites. It also goes as far as to have you questioning whether people who are morally corrupt can ever really change. Extremely well written. I gave my copy to my dad after I finished because I thought he would enjoy it as well!

Order it on Amazon
spacer line
A Novel Love Story by Ashley Poston
  romcom  paperback

Enjoyed while floating in the pool on a very hot Texas summer day

Novel love Story being read with a beer poolside  hanzastephens
The Review
 Click for more info about A Novel Love Story     Kindle Edition
This book really hit home for me and will for other readers who have been through very tough heartbreak. The world keeps moving, even if you’re not in it … so you have to keep going. While I do think the chemistry between the main characters fell a bit flat (this isn’t the summer sizzle you’re looking for!), I loved the overall premise and the creativity behind the read!

Order it on Amazon
spacer line
The Midnight Feast by Lucy Foley
 DNF  thriller  kindle

An alternative book with a similar setting recommended below.

the midnight feast on kindle
The Review
 Click for more info about The Midnight Feast: A Novel     Hardcover – June 18, 2024
I read this book because Grace Atwood said I’d love this book … and for once, I wish I hadn’t listened! This book’s setting is super intriguing and fabulous – opening weekend of a fancy, luxury resort in rural England. That said … the book was absolutely such a bummer. I just could not for the life of me make it though this book. The birds … 

If you want to like this book and can’t (like me), I recommend you check out The Club by Ellery Lloyd! Both books have similar settings, just one is far superior to the other (sorry, Lucy). I’ll link The Club below. My review for it from last year can be found here!

Order The Club on Amazon
spacer line
The Wedding People by Alison Espach
 romcom hardcover 
Enjoyed as slowly as possible in nowhere in particular, because I wanted to savor every minute of it

The Wedding People book cover hanzastephens
Please note this book has recurring themes of divorce, suicidal ideation, depression, and infertility.

The Review
Click for more info about The Wedding People: A Novel     Kindle Edition
This book hurt so good to read. It was the story of sadness, redemption, and figuring out who you are in life. 

After Phoebe’s husband leaves her for her coworker during the 2020 global pandemic (not a key part of the story but worth noting), she goes through with a grand plan to end her life in a hotel in Newport. Little does she know she’s the only guest in the hotel not there to attend the fabulously over-the-top wedding of Lila and Gary. When Lila finds out why Phoebe is there, she puts her foot down – there will be NO suicide at the hotel on the weekend of her wedding and befriends Phoebe to keep her from being able to follow through on the unspeakable act. 